This is a beginning to a series of posts.

PS: There are no scholarly references here! This is purely based on my beliefs, the books I read, and the content I consumed, but not official scientific papers. 

My concern since the very beginning(of my life) was that we, as humans, have immense potential that we don't realize. It's mainly because we are unaware of our superpowers; we don't get to be superhumans. This belief originated in me more than ten years ago; I remember presenting this for my English class in college, where we were free to choose our topic. The things I can talk about tirelessly, without preparation, are the beautiful night sky (or maybe the sky in general, but twinkling stars are more attractive) and the human mind. 

I am just fascinated and astonished by how it functions. If somebody had told us about its immense capabilities earlier in life, we would all be superhumans (in reality, there were a lot of people trying to tell us, and we did not understand, maybe due to our immaturity or lack of clarity).

Leave superhumans; I don't think we are even properly functioning humans; we are so empty inside that we seek to fill that emptiness with addictive fast/junk food, Netflix shows, overspending on things in a sale that we will probably never use, scrolling endlessly on social media platforms.. etc. the list goes on and on. We don't consciously try to understand what our bodies are trying to tell us. Do we even make an effort to listen in the first place? How many of us listen to a conversation to reply instead of understanding and giving advice even when not asked for it? We don't put the effort into caring for our inner self as much as we try to care for our outer self. 

A lot can be said about what's wrong with this world or how it works. Every aspirant wants to make the world a better place to live, no matter how small that contribution is. I am trying to "wake up," as Deepak Chopra quotes. I was exposed to his book "Meta-human" by an accident. There was a power outage (something that happens once in 5-10 years in the place I live in), which forced me out of my apartment to a local library to continue my work, which is when I stumbled upon the book that changed my life forever. 

Self-realization is a long path that takes a lot of time. Merely understanding why you are reacting the way you are reacting to every situation you are put into requires a lot of work, and then changing yourself to a version that reacts their best in every situation requires even more effort. Here, the word "best" is relatively perceived; my current definition is "doing something that will not give you sleepless nights thinking of every other way you would do the same thing." The words might seem complicated, but they all make sense (in my head) as I put my stream of consciousness on paper (or, technically, a computer screen). 

Some of my notes from my original presentation ten years ago include tips for everyday practice, which include:

Affirmations - affirming yourself whatever you wish to achieve with the belief that you already have it.

Visualizing - imagining that you have what you wish for.

Self- reflection - acknowledging what your inner self really wants.

 Meditation - again, this has many definitions, what I mean here is state with "lack of thought" or "thoughtlessness," a state where you don't worry about your next step or recollect your past mistakes and just "be" because we are human be-ings and not human do-ings.

An image from my presentation, seven years ago. Here the weapon in hand, is of course your own mind. 

Here are a few tips that worked for me: 

1. Simple things like maintaining a good distance from electronic devices (mostly phones), especially when you are asleep, are good first steps.

2. Having an e-detox day, like dedicating every Saturday to staying away from the screen, can tremendously help you. (your eyes will thank you later)

3. Reconnecting with nature helps us reconnect with our inner selves, so try to watch the sunset and sunrise. 

4. Maintaining a daily routine and a balanced diet. (Something everybody says and is challenging to do; this one sentence cannot do justice to the power of the statement. We will have a separate article for that!)

I have many other questions, which I will discuss in the future, like what causes thoughts and why we get specific thoughts. Similarly, what causes a dream, why do we get dreams about different things, why can't we control them, and why can't we remember them?

This is my current state of mind, which will be enriched by new thoughts and experiences the next time I reread this. (Of course not the questions; I had these from the day I remembered things, it may
